MD/TECHNICAL_REFERENCE.md, before:

# SerpAPI System - Technical Function Reference

## � SCHEMA MODIFICATION WARNING

**⚠️ DATABASE SCHEMA CHANGES ARE STRICTLY PROHIBITED ⚠️**

Any modifications to the database schema require explicit double-confirmation from the project owner. Unauthorized schema changes can break the entire system and compromise data integrity. Only data operations (INSERT, UPDATE, DELETE) are permitted without special approval.

---

## 🚨 CRITICAL FLIGHT SEARCH POLICY

**⚠️ ALWAYS USE THE DEFAULT FLIGHT SEARCH FUNCTION ⚠️**

**Required Function**: `EnhancedFlightSearchClient.search_flights()`
**Location**: `Main/enhanced_flight_search.py`

### Mandatory Usage Policy:
- **NEVER create custom search scripts** - they may miss critical functionality
- **ALWAYS use** `client.search_flights(departure_id, arrival_id, outbound_date)` 
- **NEVER bypass** the enhanced flight search system
- **Example Correct Usage**:
  ```python
  from enhanced_flight_search import EnhancedFlightSearchClient
  client = EnhancedFlightSearchClient()
  results = client.search_flights('POM', 'CDG', '2025-10-10')
  ```

### Why This Function is Required:
- ✅ **Cache-first strategy** - checks database before API calls
- ✅ **Complete data storage** - stores all results, segments, airlines, airports
- ✅ **Connection handling** - properly handles multi-stop international flights
- ✅ **Error handling** - robust error management and logging
- ✅ **Data validation** - validates all parameters before API calls
- ✅ **Results parsing** - correctly processes complex API responses

### Common Mistake:
❌ Creating custom scripts that call SerpAPI directly
✅ Using the centralized `search_flights()` function

---

## �📋 Complete Function Documentation with Flow Diagrams

---

## 🔍 Enhanced Flight Search Client Functions

### 1. `search_flights()` - Main Search Function

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant U as User
    participant ESC as EnhancedFlightSearchClient
    participant V as Validator
    participant C as Cache
    participant API as SerpAPIClient
    participant DB as Database
    
    U->>ESC: search_flights(params)
    ESC->>ESC: cleanup_old_data()
    ESC->>ESC: build_search_params()
    ESC->>ESC: auto_generate_return_date()
    ESC->>V: _validate_search_params()
    V-->>ESC: validation_result
    
    alt Validation Failed
        ESC-->>U: return validation_error
    else Validation Passed
        ESC->>C: search_cache()
        alt Cache Hit
            C-->>ESC: cached_data
            ESC-->>U: return cached_result
        else Cache Miss
            ESC->>API: search_round_trip() / search_one_way()
            API-->>ESC: api_result
            alt API Success
                ESC->>DB: store_flight_data()
                ESC->>ESC: _store_airline_info()
                ESC->>ESC: _store_airport_info()
                ESC-->>U: return api_result
            else API Failed
                ESC-->>U: return api_error
            end
        end
    end
```

**Function Details:**
- **Purpose**: Smart flight search with cache-first strategy
- **Parameters**: 12 main parameters including departure_id, arrival_id, dates, passengers
- **Returns**: Standardized result dict with success, source, data, and metadata
- **Cache Strategy**: Checks 24-hour cache before API calls
- **Auto-features**: Auto-generates return dates, auto-validates parameters

### 2. `_extract_airline_iata_code()` - IATA Code Extraction

```mermaid
flowchart TD
    Start([Flight Number Input]) --> ValidateInput{Valid String?}
    ValidateInput -->|No| DefaultReturn[Return 'Unknown']
    ValidateInput -->|Yes| StripWhitespace[Strip Whitespace]
    
    StripWhitespace --> ApplyRegex[Apply Regex: ^([A-Z]{2,3})\s*\d+]
    ApplyRegex --> RegexMatch{Match Found?}
    
    RegexMatch -->|No| DefaultReturn
    RegexMatch -->|Yes| ExtractGroup[Extract Group 1]
    
    ExtractGroup --> ValidateLength{Length 2-3 Chars?}
    ValidateLength -->|No| DefaultReturn
    ValidateLength -->|Yes| ValidateAlpha{All Alphabetic?}
    
    ValidateAlpha -->|No| DefaultReturn
    ValidateAlpha -->|Yes| ReturnIATA[Return IATA Code]
    
    DefaultReturn --> End([End])
    ReturnIATA --> End
```

**Function Details:**
- **Purpose**: Extract 2-3 character airline IATA codes from flight numbers
- **Input**: Flight number string (e.g., "PR 216", "CX 123")
- **Output**: IATA code (e.g., "PR", "CX") or "Unknown"
- **Regex Pattern**: `^([A-Z]{2,3})\s*\d+` - Matches airline code followed by numbers
- **Validation**: Ensures extracted code is 2-3 alphabetic characters

### 3. `_store_airline_info()` & `_store_airport_info()` - Reference Data Management

```mermaid
flowchart TD
    Start([Store Reference Data]) --> ExtractData[Extract Required Fields]
    ExtractData --> CheckExists{Record Exists?}
    
    CheckExists -->|Yes| UpdateTimestamp[UPDATE last_seen]
    CheckExists -->|No| InsertRecord[INSERT OR IGNORE new record]
    
    UpdateTimestamp --> LogUpdate[Log Update Action]
    InsertRecord --> LogInsert[Log Insert Action]
    
    LogUpdate --> End([End])
    LogInsert --> End
```

**Function Details:**
- **Purpose**: Maintain normalized reference tables for airports and airlines
- **Strategy**: INSERT OR IGNORE + UPDATE pattern for upsert functionality
- **Tracking**: Updates last_seen timestamps for existing records
- **Logging**: Comprehensive logging of all database operations

---

## �️ Deprecated Components

The prior interactive API approval & usage monitoring subsystem (APICallMonitor, ApprovalRequiredSearchClient, request_api_approval, generate_usage_report) has been **fully removed** during the September 2025 consolidation.

Rationale:
- The cache-first search path plus tighter parameter validation made manual per-call approval redundant.
- Added complexity (stateful pending requests, cost prompts) introduced surface area without proportional risk reduction given current usage volume.
- Removal simplifies operational flowcharts and reduces documentation drift.

Migration Guidance:
- Use `EnhancedFlightSearchClient.search_flights()` directly (round-trip or one-way) or `search_week_range()` for aggregated weekly discovery.
- Cost or quota governance, if reintroduced, should be implemented as a lightweight, non-interactive metrics collector outside the critical path.

Any historic references to: `request_api_approval`, `approve_and_execute`, `ApprovalRequiredSearchClient`, `APICallMonitor`, or cost prompt flows should be treated as archival and not re-implemented without a new architectural review.

---

## 💾 Database Functions

Note: Schema version manifest (`schema_version`) is present with baseline `2025.09.08-baseline` and verified by tests; unauthorized drift is detected via checksums and drift detection helpers.

## 🧾 Structured Event Taxonomy

Event names follow dot-separated hierarchy: <domain>.<category>.<action>

Domains & Examples:
- api.* : Low-level SerpAPI interactions
    - api.attempt (attempt number)
    - api.success (status_code)
    - api.retry (transient failure before next backoff)
    - api.failed (exhausted retries)
    - api.exception (unexpected non-RequestException error)
- efs.search.* : High-level enhanced flight search lifecycle
    - efs.search.start (route, cache_key)
    - efs.search.success (source=cache|api, duration_ms)
    - efs.search.error (validation or API failure)
- efs.cache.* : Cache decision points
    - efs.cache.hit (search_id)
    - efs.cache.miss (cache_key)
- efs.api.request : API invocation initiated (pre-call)
- migration.* : (Future) schema changes, e.g. migration.apply, migration.error

Payload Conventions:
- search_id: unique request scope id
- cache_key: deterministic hash over normalized parameters
- attempt: 1-based retry counter
- duration_ms: wall time duration of operation
- error: concise error string or exception message

Logging Channels:
- Structured JSON lines: logs/flight_events.jsonl
- Classic rotating file: logs/flight_system.log

Future Extensions (P2/P3):
- Add migration.* events when new migrations added
- Add metrics.export.* for external sink operations

### 1. `FlightSearchCache.search_cache()` - Cache Lookup
### Legacy Processor Deprecation

`flight_processor.py` is retained only for historical reference. All structured ingestion now occurs inside `EnhancedFlightSearchClient._store_structured_data`. The legacy module will be removed after a deprecation window; do not extend it.


```mermaid
flowchart TD
    Start([Cache Search Request]) --> NormalizeParams[Normalize Parameters]
    NormalizeParams --> GenerateKey[Generate SHA256 Key]
    GenerateKey --> CalcCutoff[Calculate 24h Cutoff]
    
    CalcCutoff --> QueryDB[Query Database with Key + Time]
    QueryDB --> RecordFound{Record Found?}
    
    RecordFound -->|No| ReturnNone[Return None - Cache Miss]
    RecordFound -->|Yes| ParseJSON[Parse JSON Response]
    
    ParseJSON --> AddMetadata[Add Cache Metadata]
    AddMetadata --> ReturnData[Return Cached Data]
    
    ReturnNone --> End([End])
    ReturnData --> End
```

**Canonical Cache SQL (current):**
```sql
SELECT fs.*, COUNT(fr.id) AS flight_count
FROM flight_searches fs
LEFT JOIN flight_results fr ON fs.search_id = fr.search_id
WHERE fs.cache_key = ?
    AND fs.created_at > ?
GROUP BY fs.search_id
ORDER BY fs.created_at DESC
LIMIT 1;
```

Raw response retrieval now performed indirectly by associating `api_query_id` when structured data is stored. Direct joins on raw table are intentionally avoided in the hot cache path for speed.

### 2. `_store_structured_data()` - Data Persistence

```mermaid
flowchart TD
    Start([Store Flight Data]) --> BeginTx[Begin Transaction]
    BeginTx --> StoreSearchRecord[Store flight_searches Record]
    StoreSearchRecord --> ProcessFlights[Process Each Flight]
    
    ProcessFlights --> StoreFlightResult[Store flight_results Record]
    StoreFlightResult --> ProcessSegments[Process Flight Segments]
    ProcessSegments --> ExtractAirportData[Extract Airport Data]
    ExtractAirportData --> ExtractAirlineData[Extract Airline Data]
    
    ExtractAirlineData --> ExtractIATACodes[Extract IATA Codes]
    ExtractIATACodes --> StoreSegmentRecord[Store flight_segments Record]
    StoreSegmentRecord --> UpdateReferences[Update Reference Tables]
    
    UpdateReferences --> StoreRawAPI[Store Raw API Response]
    StoreRawAPI --> CommitTx[Commit Transaction]
    CommitTx --> UpdateIndexes[Update Database Indexes]
    
    UpdateIndexes --> End([Storage Complete])
```

**Function Details:**
- **Atomic Operations**: Full transaction support with rollback on errors
- **Data Integrity**: Foreign key constraints maintained throughout
- **Reference Updates**: Automatic upsert of airports and airlines tables
- **Raw Preservation**: Complete API response stored for future analysis
- **Index Maintenance**: Automatic index updates for performance

### 3. `cleanup_old_data()` - Cache Maintenance

```mermaid
flowchart TD
    Start([Cleanup Request]) --> CalcCutoff[Calculate Cutoff Time]
    CalcCutoff --> CountOld[Count Old Records]
    CountOld --> HasOldData{Old Data Exists?}
    
    HasOldData -->|No| LogNoCleanup[Log: No cleanup needed]
    HasOldData -->|Yes| DeleteOldSearches[DELETE old flight_searches]
    
    DeleteOldSearches --> DeleteOrphaned[DELETE orphaned records]
    DeleteOrphaned --> VacuumDB[VACUUM database]
    
    VacuumDB --> LogCleanup[Log cleanup results]
    LogCleanup --> End([Cleanup Complete])
    LogNoCleanup --> End
```

**Structured Cleanup (raw preserved by default):**
```sql
-- Identify expired searches
SELECT search_id FROM flight_searches WHERE created_at < :cutoff;

-- Cascade deletes (application-controlled ordering)
DELETE FROM layovers WHERE flight_result_id IN (SELECT id FROM flight_results WHERE search_id = :sid);
DELETE FROM flight_segments WHERE flight_result_id IN (SELECT id FROM flight_results WHERE search_id = :sid);
DELETE FROM flight_results WHERE search_id = :sid;
DELETE FROM price_insights WHERE search_id = :sid;
DELETE FROM flight_searches WHERE search_id = :sid;

-- Raw pruning only when explicitly requested
-- DELETE FROM api_queries WHERE created_at < :cutoff; -- (conditional)
```

---

## 🌐 SerpAPI Client Functions

### 1. `search_round_trip()` - Round-trip Flight Search

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant C as Client
    participant SC as SerpAPIClient
    participant RL as RateLimiter
    participant API as SerpAPI
    participant P as Parser
    
    C->>SC: search_round_trip(params)
    SC->>SC: _validate_parameters(params)
    SC->>SC: _build_search_url(params)
    SC->>RL: check_rate_limit()
    RL-->>SC: rate_limit_ok
    
    SC->>API: HTTP GET request
    API-->>SC: JSON response
    SC->>SC: _handle_api_errors(response)
    SC->>P: _parse_response(response)
    P-->>SC: structured_data
    SC-->>C: return formatted_result
```

**Function Details:**
- **Parameter Validation**: Comprehensive validation of all 25+ parameters
- **URL Building**: Dynamic URL construction with proper encoding
- **Rate Limiting**: Built-in rate limiting to respect API limits
- **Error Handling**: HTTP and API error handling with retries
- **Response Parsing**: Structured parsing of complex JSON responses

### 2. `_parse_response()` - Response Processing

```mermaid
flowchart TD
    Start([API Response]) --> ValidateJSON{Valid JSON?}
    ValidateJSON -->|No| ErrorReturn[Return Parse Error]
    ValidateJSON -->|Yes| CheckStructure{Expected Structure?}
    
    CheckStructure -->|No| StructureError[Return Structure Error]
    CheckStructure -->|Yes| ExtractFlights[Extract Flight Data]
    
    ExtractFlights --> ProcessPricing[Process Pricing Info]
    ProcessPricing --> ProcessSegments[Process Flight Segments]
    ProcessSegments --> ProcessAirports[Process Airport Data]
    ProcessAirports --> ProcessAirlines[Process Airline Data]
    
    ProcessAirlines --> ExtractMetadata[Extract Search Metadata]
    ExtractMetadata --> BuildResult[Build Structured Result]
    BuildResult --> ValidateOutput[Validate Output Structure]
    
    ValidateOutput --> ReturnSuccess[Return Parsed Data]
    ErrorReturn --> End([End])
    StructureError --> End
    ReturnSuccess --> End
```

**Key Extraction Patterns:**
- **Flights**: `response['flights']` array processing
- **Prices**: Currency normalization and price extraction
- **Segments**: Departure/arrival times, airports, airlines
- **Metadata**: Search tokens, booking URLs, carbon emissions

---

## 🔄 Integration Patterns

### 1. Cache-First Search Pattern

```mermaid
flowchart LR
    Request --> Cache{Cache?}
    Cache -->|Hit| ValidateAge{Fresh?}
    ValidateAge -->|Yes| Return[Return Cached]
    ValidateAge -->|No| API[Call API]
    Cache -->|Miss| API
    API --> Store[Store Result]
    Store --> Return
```

### 2. (Removed) Approval Workflow Pattern
Previously documented here. Eliminated in current architecture; cache-first path calls API directly when needed.

### 3. Database Transaction Pattern

```mermaid
flowchart LR
    Begin[BEGIN TRANSACTION] --> Operations[Execute Operations]
    Operations --> Check{All Success?}
    Check -->|Yes| Commit[COMMIT]
    Check -->|No| Rollback[ROLLBACK]
    Commit --> UpdateIndexes[Update Indexes]
    Rollback --> LogError[Log Error]
```

---

## 🎯 Function Dependencies

```mermaid
graph TD
    ESC[EnhancedFlightSearchClient] --> |uses| SAC[SerpAPIFlightClient]
    ESC --> |uses| FSC[FlightSearchCache]
    ESC --> |uses| FSV[FlightSearchValidator]
    ESC --> |may call| WRS[search_week_range]

    FSC --> |uses| DB[(SQLite Database)]
    SAC --> |uses| RL[RateLimiter]
    SAC --> |calls| SAPI[SerpAPI Service]

    SessionCleanup[session_cleanup.py] --> |maintains| DB
```

---

## 📊 Performance Metrics
### Import & Packaging Conventions (Stability Note)
All runtime modules now import configuration as `from Main.config import ...` to avoid Windows-specific path inconsistencies that produced `ModuleNotFoundError: config` and duplicate module loads (e.g., `core.metrics` vs `Main.core.metrics`).

Guidelines:
1. Do NOT use bare `import config`.
2. Keep `Main/` as a package (retain `__init__.py`).
3. If adding new subpackages under `Main/`, prefer explicit `from Main.<subpkg> import X`.
4. Tests should import shared objects from the canonical path (e.g., `from core.metrics import METRICS`), never mixed forms.

Diagnostics:
`python - <<EOF` snippet to verify singleton metrics instance:
```
from core.metrics import METRICS as A
from Main.core.metrics import METRICS as B
assert A is B, 'Duplicate metrics instance detected (path misconfiguration)'
```
This assertion should always pass; if it fails, check for ad-hoc sys.path mutations in new code.

Structured storage failure metric (`structured_storage_failures`) increments when `_store_structured_data` raises; failure is non-fatal and overall search still returns success. Covered by `tests/test_structured_storage_failure_metric.py`.

### Function Execution Times (Typical)
- `search_cache()`: 5-15ms (database query)
- `search_flights()` (cache hit): 20-50ms
- `search_flights()` (API call): 2-5 seconds
- `store_flight_data()`: 50-200ms
// Approval timing metrics removed (subsystem deprecated)
- `cleanup_old_data()`: 100-500ms

### Database Operations
- **Cache lookup**: Single indexed query
- **Data storage**: 5-15 INSERT operations per flight search
- **Cleanup**: Batch DELETE operations with VACUUM
- **Reference updates**: UPSERT pattern for efficiency

---

*This technical reference documents the complete function architecture of the SerpAPI Flight Search System, including detailed flow diagrams for each major component.*

Commit message:

docs: Flight Search tabs + return date; inbound fallback; airport auto-extract | 20250910-130700

MD/TECHNICAL_REFERENCE.md, after:

# SerpAPI System - Technical Function Reference

## � SCHEMA MODIFICATION WARNING

**⚠️ DATABASE SCHEMA CHANGES ARE STRICTLY PROHIBITED ⚠️**

Any modifications to the database schema require explicit double-confirmation from the project owner. Unauthorized schema changes can break the entire system and compromise data integrity. Only data operations (INSERT, UPDATE, DELETE) are permitted without special approval.

---

## 🚨 CRITICAL FLIGHT SEARCH POLICY

**⚠️ ALWAYS USE THE DEFAULT FLIGHT SEARCH FUNCTION ⚠️**

**Required Function**: `EnhancedFlightSearchClient.search_flights()`
**Location**: `Main/enhanced_flight_search.py`

### Mandatory Usage Policy:
- **NEVER create custom search scripts** - they may miss critical functionality
- **ALWAYS use** `client.search_flights(departure_id, arrival_id, outbound_date)` 
- **NEVER bypass** the enhanced flight search system
- **Example Correct Usage**:
  ```python
  from enhanced_flight_search import EnhancedFlightSearchClient
  client = EnhancedFlightSearchClient()
  results = client.search_flights('POM', 'CDG', '2025-10-10')
  ```

### Why This Function is Required:
- ✅ **Cache-first strategy** - checks database before API calls
- ✅ **Complete data storage** - stores all results, segments, airlines, airports
- ✅ **Connection handling** - properly handles multi-stop international flights
- ✅ **Error handling** - robust error management and logging
- ✅ **Data validation** - validates all parameters before API calls
- ✅ **Results parsing** - correctly processes complex API responses

### Common Mistake:
❌ Creating custom scripts that call SerpAPI directly
✅ Using the centralized `search_flights()` function

---

## �📋 Complete Function Documentation with Flow Diagrams

---

## 🔍 Enhanced Flight Search Client Functions

### 1. `search_flights()` - Main Search Function

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant U as User
    participant ESC as EnhancedFlightSearchClient
    participant V as Validator
    participant C as Cache
    participant API as SerpAPIClient
    participant DB as Database
    
    U->>ESC: search_flights(params)
    ESC->>ESC: cleanup_old_data()
    ESC->>ESC: build_search_params()
    ESC->>ESC: auto_generate_return_date()
    ESC->>V: _validate_search_params()
    V-->>ESC: validation_result
    
    alt Validation Failed
        ESC-->>U: return validation_error
    else Validation Passed
        ESC->>C: search_cache()
        alt Cache Hit
            C-->>ESC: cached_data
            ESC-->>U: return cached_result
        else Cache Miss
            ESC->>API: search_round_trip() / search_one_way()
            API-->>ESC: api_result
            alt API Success
                ESC->>DB: store_flight_data()
                ESC->>ESC: _store_airline_info()
                ESC->>ESC: _store_airport_info()
                ESC-->>U: return api_result
            else API Failed
                ESC-->>U: return api_error
            end
        end
    end
```

**Function Details:**
- **Purpose**: Smart flight search with cache-first strategy
- **Parameters**: 12 main parameters including departure_id, arrival_id, dates, passengers
- **Returns**: Standardized result dict with success, source, data, and metadata
- **Cache Strategy**: Checks 24-hour cache before API calls
- **Auto-features**: Auto-generates return dates, auto-validates parameters

### 2. `_extract_airline_iata_code()` - IATA Code Extraction

```mermaid
flowchart TD
    Start([Flight Number Input]) --> ValidateInput{Valid String?}
    ValidateInput -->|No| DefaultReturn[Return 'Unknown']
    ValidateInput -->|Yes| StripWhitespace[Strip Whitespace]
    
    StripWhitespace --> ApplyRegex[Apply Regex: ^([A-Z]{2,3})\s*\d+]
    ApplyRegex --> RegexMatch{Match Found?}
    
    RegexMatch -->|No| DefaultReturn
    RegexMatch -->|Yes| ExtractGroup[Extract Group 1]
    
    ExtractGroup --> ValidateLength{Length 2-3 Chars?}
    ValidateLength -->|No| DefaultReturn
    ValidateLength -->|Yes| ValidateAlpha{All Alphabetic?}
    
    ValidateAlpha -->|No| DefaultReturn
    ValidateAlpha -->|Yes| ReturnIATA[Return IATA Code]
    
    DefaultReturn --> End([End])
    ReturnIATA --> End
```

**Function Details:**
- **Purpose**: Extract 2-3 character airline IATA codes from flight numbers
- **Input**: Flight number string (e.g., "PR 216", "CX 123")
- **Output**: IATA code (e.g., "PR", "CX") or "Unknown"
- **Regex Pattern**: `^([A-Z]{2,3})\s*\d+` - Matches airline code followed by numbers
- **Validation**: Ensures extracted code is 2-3 alphabetic characters

### 3. `_store_airline_info()` & `_store_airport_info()` - Reference Data Management

```mermaid
flowchart TD
    Start([Store Reference Data]) --> ExtractData[Extract Required Fields]
    ExtractData --> CheckExists{Record Exists?}
    
    CheckExists -->|Yes| UpdateTimestamp[UPDATE last_seen]
    CheckExists -->|No| InsertRecord[INSERT OR IGNORE new record]
    
    UpdateTimestamp --> LogUpdate[Log Update Action]
    InsertRecord --> LogInsert[Log Insert Action]
    
    LogUpdate --> End([End])
    LogInsert --> End
```

**Function Details:**
- **Purpose**: Maintain normalized reference tables for airports and airlines
- **Strategy**: INSERT OR IGNORE + UPDATE pattern for upsert functionality
- **Tracking**: Updates last_seen timestamps for existing records
- **Logging**: Comprehensive logging of all database operations

---

## �️ Deprecated Components

The prior interactive API approval & usage monitoring subsystem (APICallMonitor, ApprovalRequiredSearchClient, request_api_approval, generate_usage_report) has been **fully removed** during the September 2025 consolidation.

Rationale:
- The cache-first search path plus tighter parameter validation made manual per-call approval redundant.
- Added complexity (stateful pending requests, cost prompts) introduced surface area without proportional risk reduction given current usage volume.
- Removal simplifies operational flowcharts and reduces documentation drift.

Migration Guidance:
- Use `EnhancedFlightSearchClient.search_flights()` directly (round-trip or one-way) or `search_week_range()` for aggregated weekly discovery.
- Cost or quota governance, if reintroduced, should be implemented as a lightweight, non-interactive metrics collector outside the critical path.

Any historic references to: `request_api_approval`, `approve_and_execute`, `ApprovalRequiredSearchClient`, `APICallMonitor`, or cost prompt flows should be treated as archival and not re-implemented without a new architectural review.

---

## 💾 Database Functions

Note: Schema version manifest (`schema_version`) is present with baseline `2025.09.08-baseline` and verified by tests; unauthorized drift is detected via checksums and drift detection helpers.

## 🧾 Structured Event Taxonomy

Event names follow dot-separated hierarchy: <domain>.<category>.<action>

Domains & Examples:
- api.* : Low-level SerpAPI interactions
    - api.attempt (attempt number)
    - api.success (status_code)
    - api.retry (transient failure before next backoff)
    - api.failed (exhausted retries)
    - api.exception (unexpected non-RequestException error)
- efs.search.* : High-level enhanced flight search lifecycle
    - efs.search.start (route, cache_key)
    - efs.search.success (source=cache|api, duration_ms)
    - efs.search.error (validation or API failure)
- efs.cache.* : Cache decision points
    - efs.cache.hit (search_id)
    - efs.cache.miss (cache_key)
- efs.api.request : API invocation initiated (pre-call)
- migration.* : (Future) schema changes, e.g. migration.apply, migration.error

Payload Conventions:
- search_id: unique request scope id
- cache_key: deterministic hash over normalized parameters
- attempt: 1-based retry counter
- duration_ms: wall time duration of operation
- error: concise error string or exception message

Logging Channels:
- Structured JSON lines: logs/flight_events.jsonl
- Classic rotating file: logs/flight_system.log

Future Extensions (P2/P3):
- Add migration.* events when new migrations added
- Add metrics.export.* for external sink operations

### 1. `FlightSearchCache.search_cache()` - Cache Lookup
### Legacy Processor Deprecation

`flight_processor.py` is retained only for historical reference. All structured ingestion now occurs inside `EnhancedFlightSearchClient._store_structured_data`. The legacy module will be removed after a deprecation window; do not extend it.


```mermaid
flowchart TD
    Start([Cache Search Request]) --> NormalizeParams[Normalize Parameters]
    NormalizeParams --> GenerateKey[Generate SHA256 Key]
    GenerateKey --> CalcCutoff[Calculate 24h Cutoff]
    
    CalcCutoff --> QueryDB[Query Database with Key + Time]
    QueryDB --> RecordFound{Record Found?}
    
    RecordFound -->|No| ReturnNone[Return None - Cache Miss]
    RecordFound -->|Yes| ParseJSON[Parse JSON Response]
    
    ParseJSON --> AddMetadata[Add Cache Metadata]
    AddMetadata --> ReturnData[Return Cached Data]
    
    ReturnNone --> End([End])
    ReturnData --> End
```

**Canonical Cache SQL (current):**
```sql
SELECT fs.*, COUNT(fr.id) AS flight_count
FROM flight_searches fs
LEFT JOIN flight_results fr ON fs.search_id = fr.search_id
WHERE fs.cache_key = ?
    AND fs.created_at > ?
GROUP BY fs.search_id
ORDER BY fs.created_at DESC
LIMIT 1;
```

Raw response retrieval now performed indirectly by associating `api_query_id` when structured data is stored. Direct joins on raw table are intentionally avoided in the hot cache path for speed.

### 2. `_store_structured_data()` - Data Persistence

```mermaid
flowchart TD
    Start([Store Flight Data]) --> BeginTx[Begin Transaction]
    BeginTx --> StoreSearchRecord[Store flight_searches Record]
    StoreSearchRecord --> ProcessFlights[Process Each Flight]
    
    ProcessFlights --> StoreFlightResult[Store flight_results Record]
    StoreFlightResult --> ProcessSegments[Process Flight Segments]
    ProcessSegments --> ExtractAirportData[Extract Airport Data]
    ExtractAirportData --> ExtractAirlineData[Extract Airline Data]
    
    ExtractAirlineData --> ExtractIATACodes[Extract IATA Codes]
    ExtractIATACodes --> StoreSegmentRecord[Store flight_segments Record]
    StoreSegmentRecord --> UpdateReferences[Update Reference Tables]
    
    UpdateReferences --> StoreRawAPI[Store Raw API Response]
    StoreRawAPI --> CommitTx[Commit Transaction]
    CommitTx --> UpdateIndexes[Update Database Indexes]
    
    UpdateIndexes --> End([Storage Complete])
```

**Function Details:**
- **Atomic Operations**: Full transaction support with rollback on errors
- **Data Integrity**: Foreign key constraints maintained throughout
- **Reference Updates**: Automatic upsert of airports and airlines tables
- **Raw Preservation**: Complete API response stored for future analysis
- **Index Maintenance**: Automatic index updates for performance

### 3. `cleanup_old_data()` - Cache Maintenance

```mermaid
flowchart TD
    Start([Cleanup Request]) --> CalcCutoff[Calculate Cutoff Time]
    CalcCutoff --> CountOld[Count Old Records]
    CountOld --> HasOldData{Old Data Exists?}
    
    HasOldData -->|No| LogNoCleanup[Log: No cleanup needed]
    HasOldData -->|Yes| DeleteOldSearches[DELETE old flight_searches]
    
    DeleteOldSearches --> DeleteOrphaned[DELETE orphaned records]
    DeleteOrphaned --> VacuumDB[VACUUM database]
    
    VacuumDB --> LogCleanup[Log cleanup results]
    LogCleanup --> End([Cleanup Complete])
    LogNoCleanup --> End
```

**Structured Cleanup (raw preserved by default):**
```sql
-- Identify expired searches
SELECT search_id FROM flight_searches WHERE created_at < :cutoff;

-- Cascade deletes (application-controlled ordering)
DELETE FROM layovers WHERE flight_result_id IN (SELECT id FROM flight_results WHERE search_id = :sid);
DELETE FROM flight_segments WHERE flight_result_id IN (SELECT id FROM flight_results WHERE search_id = :sid);
DELETE FROM flight_results WHERE search_id = :sid;
DELETE FROM price_insights WHERE search_id = :sid;
DELETE FROM flight_searches WHERE search_id = :sid;

-- Raw pruning only when explicitly requested
-- DELETE FROM api_queries WHERE created_at < :cutoff; -- (conditional)
```

---

## 🌐 SerpAPI Client Functions

### 1. `search_round_trip()` - Round-trip Flight Search

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant C as Client
    participant SC as SerpAPIClient
    participant RL as RateLimiter
    participant API as SerpAPI
    participant P as Parser
    
    C->>SC: search_round_trip(params)
    SC->>SC: _validate_parameters(params)
    SC->>SC: _build_search_url(params)
    SC->>RL: check_rate_limit()
    RL-->>SC: rate_limit_ok
    
    SC->>API: HTTP GET request
    API-->>SC: JSON response
    SC->>SC: _handle_api_errors(response)
    SC->>P: _parse_response(response)
    P-->>SC: structured_data
    SC-->>C: return formatted_result
```

**Function Details:**
- **Parameter Validation**: Comprehensive validation of all 25+ parameters
- **URL Building**: Dynamic URL construction with proper encoding
- **Rate Limiting**: Built-in rate limiting to respect API limits
- **Error Handling**: HTTP and API error handling with retries
- **Response Parsing**: Structured parsing of complex JSON responses

### 2. `_parse_response()` - Response Processing

```mermaid
flowchart TD
    Start([API Response]) --> ValidateJSON{Valid JSON?}
    ValidateJSON -->|No| ErrorReturn[Return Parse Error]
    ValidateJSON -->|Yes| CheckStructure{Expected Structure?}
    
    CheckStructure -->|No| StructureError[Return Structure Error]
    CheckStructure -->|Yes| ExtractFlights[Extract Flight Data]
    
    ExtractFlights --> ProcessPricing[Process Pricing Info]
    ProcessPricing --> ProcessSegments[Process Flight Segments]
    ProcessSegments --> ProcessAirports[Process Airport Data]
    ProcessAirports --> ProcessAirlines[Process Airline Data]
    
    ProcessAirlines --> ExtractMetadata[Extract Search Metadata]
    ExtractMetadata --> BuildResult[Build Structured Result]
    BuildResult --> ValidateOutput[Validate Output Structure]
    
    ValidateOutput --> ReturnSuccess[Return Parsed Data]
    ErrorReturn --> End([End])
    StructureError --> End
    ReturnSuccess --> End
```

**Key Extraction Patterns:**
- **Flights**: `response['flights']` array processing
- **Prices**: Currency normalization and price extraction
- **Segments**: Departure/arrival times, airports, airlines
- **Metadata**: Search tokens, booking URLs, carbon emissions

---

## 🔄 Integration Patterns

### 1. Cache-First Search Pattern

```mermaid
flowchart LR
    Request --> Cache{Cache?}
    Cache -->|Hit| ValidateAge{Fresh?}
    ValidateAge -->|Yes| Return[Return Cached]
    ValidateAge -->|No| API[Call API]
    Cache -->|Miss| API
    API --> Store[Store Result]
    Store --> Return
```

### 2. (Removed) Approval Workflow Pattern
Previously documented here. Eliminated in current architecture; cache-first path calls API directly when needed.

---

## 🌐 Web Application

The web layer provides authentication (JWT) and a thin UI over the enhanced flight search engine. It delegates all business logic and storage to `EnhancedFlightSearchClient`.

Flight Search UI specifics:
- Inputs: origin, destination, outbound date, optional return date.
- Results are split into Outbound and Inbound tabs (direction inferred from first departure and final arrival vs query origin/destination).
- Sorting and pagination operate on the active tab.
- The headline shows route (multi-line) with outbound and return dates, travel class, and trip mode (1-way/2-way).

Backend specifics impacting UI correctness:
- Airport auto-extract during structured storage upserts minimal airport rows for any airport codes found in segments or layovers, ensuring referential integrity and visibility of all legs.
- Inbound fallback: if a round-trip API response contains no inbound legs for the requested return date, a one-way inbound search (arrival→departure) is executed and merged prior to storage, preventing missing return segments.

### 3. Database Transaction Pattern

```mermaid
flowchart LR
    Begin[BEGIN TRANSACTION] --> Operations[Execute Operations]
    Operations --> Check{All Success?}
    Check -->|Yes| Commit[COMMIT]
    Check -->|No| Rollback[ROLLBACK]
    Commit --> UpdateIndexes[Update Indexes]
    Rollback --> LogError[Log Error]
```

---

## 🎯 Function Dependencies

```mermaid
graph TD
    ESC[EnhancedFlightSearchClient] --> |uses| SAC[SerpAPIFlightClient]
    ESC --> |uses| FSC[FlightSearchCache]
    ESC --> |uses| FSV[FlightSearchValidator]
    ESC --> |may call| WRS[search_week_range]

    FSC --> |uses| DB[(SQLite Database)]
    SAC --> |uses| RL[RateLimiter]
    SAC --> |calls| SAPI[SerpAPI Service]

    SessionCleanup[session_cleanup.py] --> |maintains| DB
```

---

## 📊 Performance Metrics
### Import & Packaging Conventions (Stability Note)
All runtime modules now import configuration as `from Main.config import ...` to avoid Windows-specific path inconsistencies that produced `ModuleNotFoundError: config` and duplicate module loads (e.g., `core.metrics` vs `Main.core.metrics`).

Guidelines:
1. Do NOT use bare `import config`.
2. Keep `Main/` as a package (retain `__init__.py`).
3. If adding new subpackages under `Main/`, prefer explicit `from Main.<subpkg> import X`.
4. Tests should import shared objects from the canonical path (e.g., `from core.metrics import METRICS`), never mixed forms.

Diagnostics:
`python - <<EOF` snippet to verify singleton metrics instance:
```
from core.metrics import METRICS as A
from Main.core.metrics import METRICS as B
assert A is B, 'Duplicate metrics instance detected (path misconfiguration)'
```
This assertion should always pass; if it fails, check for ad-hoc sys.path mutations in new code.

Structured storage failure metric (`structured_storage_failures`) increments when `_store_structured_data` raises; failure is non-fatal and overall search still returns success. Covered by `tests/test_structured_storage_failure_metric.py`.

### Function Execution Times (Typical)
- `search_cache()`: 5-15ms (database query)
- `search_flights()` (cache hit): 20-50ms
- `search_flights()` (API call): 2-5 seconds
- `store_flight_data()`: 50-200ms
// Approval timing metrics removed (subsystem deprecated)
- `cleanup_old_data()`: 100-500ms

### Database Operations
- **Cache lookup**: Single indexed query
- **Data storage**: 5-15 INSERT operations per flight search
- **Cleanup**: Batch DELETE operations with VACUUM
- **Reference updates**: UPSERT pattern for efficiency

---

*This technical reference documents the complete function architecture of the SerpAPI Flight Search System, including detailed flow diagrams for each major component.*
