WebApp/README.md, before:

# SerpAPI Flight WebApp (Bootstrap)

This directory will contain the upcoming web application layer for the flight data system.

## Goals
- Provide a secure user-facing interface.
- Start with authentication & session management (minimal UI placeholder).
- Integrate later with existing flight search core modules.

## Current Status
Auth (JWT), user bootstrap, `/auth/*` endpoints, flight search API `/api/flight_search`, airport/airline lookup endpoints, and React SPA (optional). The legacy inline flight search HTML has been removed; a single FastAPI port (default 8000) now serves both API and built React assets when `react-frontend/dist` exists.

## Planned Stack (Subject to refinement)
- Framework: FastAPI (async, modern, OpenAPI generation).
- Auth: `python-jose` for JWT signing + `passlib[bcrypt]` for password hashing.
- DB: Reuse existing SQLite (`DB/Main_DB.db`) via SQLAlchemy session layer (to be added) OR dedicated auth tables.
- Session Strategy: Stateless JWT access token + optional refresh token endpoint.
- CSRF: Not applicable for pure API (will require if browser forms introduced).
- Rate Limiting: Reuse in-memory limiter or implement Redis if multi-process scaling.

## Security Baseline
- Argon2 or bcrypt for password hashing (preferring Argon2 if package acceptable; fallback bcrypt).
- JWT short-lived access tokens (15m) + refresh tokens (7d) stored HttpOnly (future web UI) or returned via API.
- Strict dependency pinning.
- Linting & static analysis inherited from root (`ruff`, `mypy`).

## Next Steps
1. Add `pyproject.toml` extras or separate `webapp_requirements.txt` (decide consolidation strategy).
2. Implement minimal FastAPI app with health endpoint.
3. Add user model + migration (auth_users table) and password hashing helper.
4. Implement registration & login endpoints (issue JWT).
5. Write tests under `tests/webapp/` for auth flows.

## How to run (Windows PowerShell, single port)

```powershell
# From repo root (installs Python deps, installs+builds React, starts uvicorn on 8000)
.\scripts\bootstrap.ps1 -RunServer

# Visit:
# http://127.0.0.1:8000/
# If WebApp/react-frontend/dist exists, React SPA is served.
# Demo users:
#   user@local / user
#   admin@local / admin
```

Dev (hot reload) option: you can still run `scripts/start-react.ps1` for Vite dev (default 5173); the proxy forwards API calls to 8000. This is optional after production build integration.

Commit message:

chore: deprecate React dev scripts; use npm run dev from WebApp/react-frontend

WebApp/README.md, after:

# SerpAPI Flight WebApp (Bootstrap)

This directory will contain the upcoming web application layer for the flight data system.

## Goals
- Provide a secure user-facing interface.
- Start with authentication & session management (minimal UI placeholder).
- Integrate later with existing flight search core modules.

## Current Status
Auth (JWT), user bootstrap, `/auth/*` endpoints, flight search API `/api/flight_search`, airport/airline lookup endpoints, and React SPA (optional). The legacy inline flight search HTML has been removed; a single FastAPI port (default 8000) now serves both API and built React assets when `react-frontend/dist` exists.

## Planned Stack (Subject to refinement)
- Framework: FastAPI (async, modern, OpenAPI generation).
- Auth: `python-jose` for JWT signing + `passlib[bcrypt]` for password hashing.
- DB: Reuse existing SQLite (`DB/Main_DB.db`) via SQLAlchemy session layer (to be added) OR dedicated auth tables.
- Session Strategy: Stateless JWT access token + optional refresh token endpoint.
- CSRF: Not applicable for pure API (will require if browser forms introduced).
- Rate Limiting: Reuse in-memory limiter or implement Redis if multi-process scaling.

## Security Baseline
- Argon2 or bcrypt for password hashing (preferring Argon2 if package acceptable; fallback bcrypt).
- JWT short-lived access tokens (15m) + refresh tokens (7d) stored HttpOnly (future web UI) or returned via API.
- Strict dependency pinning.
- Linting & static analysis inherited from root (`ruff`, `mypy`).

## Next Steps
1. Add `pyproject.toml` extras or separate `webapp_requirements.txt` (decide consolidation strategy).
2. Implement minimal FastAPI app with health endpoint.
3. Add user model + migration (auth_users table) and password hashing helper.
4. Implement registration & login endpoints (issue JWT).
5. Write tests under `tests/webapp/` for auth flows.

## How to run (Windows PowerShell, single port)

```powershell
# From repo root (installs Python deps, installs+builds React, starts uvicorn on 8000)
.\scripts\bootstrap.ps1 -RunServer

# Visit:
# http://127.0.0.1:8000/
# If WebApp/react-frontend/dist exists, React SPA is served.
# Demo users:
#   user@local / user
#   admin@local / admin
```

Dev (hot reload) option: run Vite directly from `WebApp/react-frontend` if needed:
	- npm install
	- npm run dev (default 5173)
The backend continues to run on 8000; Vite proxies /api,/auth,/health to 8000.
